hey this is Pam dinner thank you so much
for tuning in to b2b marketing and more
with Pam today I want to do something
different I'm recording the last episode
of the year 2019 can you believe it we
are going into 2020 like in no time and
what I want to do is do a little bit of
self-reflection and some of the key
lesson learned at least for me and
possibly can share with you and you can
learn something from it as well number
one business development coming to a
20-19 my pipeline was bone-dry
really I had several speaking
engagements and I had small projects
here and there but nothing steady so I
got so scared
so scared I was actually thinking about
going back to the corporate world and at
a time I feel like I was hitting a wall
also didn't know what the next steps
were and then a friend of mine said hey
you know I Pam in the past four years
have you done biz dev have you
constantly nurturing you know your
pipeline so the prospect I was like and
there's some of that but not so much I
tend to get a lot of referrals or the
business would come to me because I do
speaking so I didn't PO actively reach
out to anybody so that was my problem I
got cocky and I feel like the business
would come to me but you know what for
the first six months the business didn't
come to me so I started doing very
aggressive prospecting we childhood
people I know I reach all the people I
didn't know so I actually wrote a blog
post lesson learned from coal coal
prospecting using LinkedIn sales
navigator and I actually used that tool
and use the LinkedIn to actually reach
out to many people that I know and I
didn't know and I tried to build a
pipeline of my own and I think this is
kind of important if you are actually
supporting the salespeople that's what
they do and you need to change your
marketers mentality a little bit to
think like if those people number two
business model for longest time my
business models are speaking and the
consulting and then worked out pretty
well and on the consulting side
unfortunately
my clients our enterprise clients Beauty
bees therefore the purchase cycles is
long it's usually around six to 18
months but that really doesn't help to
pay the monthly bills of course whenever
I get a project it's usually a fairly
decent size a project so I need to
manage my cash flow kind of based on the
big project I'm gonna get so I started
thinking hey what else can I do to
leverage my existing skill set I'm very
very good at coaching I'm very good at
teaching I also made a very successful
transition from the traditional side to
the digital side so I actually know the
challenges how to make that transition
on top of it
I started from individual contributors
and actually move up to be a manager so
I kind of know that journey as well so I
was like you know what I can share some
of my learnings with the newly promoted
VPS of marketing marketing directors or
even marketing managers who want to make
that transition from the traditional
side to the digital side even you know
the marketing specialists who are
interested in becoming a first-line
manager or marketing director one day I
can work with them kind of like a soft
skill set or soft skill leadership
development and I tested this
consultation meant to a package at
several speaking sessions it was
actually well received a lot of people
who reach out to me they kind of want to
know in terms of how to carry a
conversation with upper management how
to write a succeed marketing plan or
some of them just want to learn a
digital marketing landscape or specific
marketing discipline now that becomes
one offering in addition to consulting
and speaking what I have found that
business model change also have impact
in terms of my content planning and the
editorial planning now when I create
content especially for the YouTube
content
I started thinking a little bit
differently in terms of okay what are
some of the key skill set or some of the
templates
I can share with you so you can use
immediately or that can help you to
actually think strategically that
business model also guide in terms of my
content creation number three it's
really about work-life balance and for
the longest time I always feel like you
know I work at certain hours and after
that I should have a personal time and
that's what we've been taught but as
independent counsel especially in 2019
what I have come to realize that the
boundary between work and life is so
blurry for me at this point I have to
change my attitude and just be okay that
from time to time that I need to work
late or there are times during working
hours I need to say do something totally
different or meeting with friends or go
exercise like now I'm doing this
recording and literally 10:30 on
Saturday night Joe in the daytime I was
doing other stuff trying to get things
done and then at night you know what
sometimes I just have to work this is
really a choice that I make in terms of
mix my work and also my life together
and I also took a kind of like attitude
change and this is the way it is I'm
okay with it
don't give yourself much of a hard time
if you cannot clearly differentiate
these two okay so that is my reflection
for 2019 I hope you would take a moment
to actually pain yourself in the back
and tell yourself that you have come a
long way and I learn so much in in 2019
and give yourself a moment to cherish
that if you like the content please
subscribe below if you actually have any
specific questions as usual you can
reach out to me anytime I want to wish
you Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year
I will see you next year thanks a lot